README.md, before:

[![Gitpod ready-to-code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gitpod-ready--to--code-blue?logo=gitpod)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/plausible/wordpress)

# [Plausible Analytics](https://plausible.io "Plausible Analytics") #

![WordPress version](https://img.shields.io/wordpress/plugin/v/plausible-analytics.svg) ![WordPress Rating](https://img.shields.io/wordpress/plugin/r/plausible-analytics.svg) ![WordPress Downloads](https://img.shields.io/wordpress/plugin/dt/plausible-analytics.svg)

Welcome to the Plausible Analytics WordPress Plugin GitHub repository. This is the code source and the center of active development. Here you can
browse the source, look at open issues, and contribute to the project.

## Getting Started

If you're looking to contribute or actively develop on Plausible Analytics then skip ahead to
the [Local Development](https://github.com/plausible/wordpress/#local-development) section below. The following is if you're looking to actively use
the plugin on your WordPress site.

### Minimum Requirements

* WordPress 4.8 or greater
* PHP version 5.6 or greater
* MySQL version 5.5 or greater

### Automatic installation

Automatic installation is the easiest option as WordPress handles the file transfers itself and you don't need to leave your web browser. To do an
automatic install of Plausible Analytics, log in to your WordPress dashboard, navigate to the Plugins menu and click "Add New".

In the search field type "Plausible Analytics" and click Search Plugins. Once you have found the plugin you can view details about it such as the
point release, rating and description. Most importantly of course, you can install it by simply clicking "Install Now".

### Manual installation

The manual installation method involves downloading our donation plugin and uploading it to your server via your favorite FTP application. The
WordPress codex contains [instructions on how to do this here](https://codex.wordpress.org/Managing_Plugins#Manual_Plugin_Installation).

### Support

This repository is not suitable for support. Please don't use GitHub issues for support requests. To get support please use the following channels:

* [WP.org Support Forums](https://wordpress.org/support/plugin/plausible-analytics) - for all users

## Available Actions, Filters and Toggles

### Filters

- `plausible_load_js_in_footer`: Allows you to load the JS code snippet in the footer.
- `plausible_analytics_script_params`: Allows you to modify the `script` element, loading the Plausible JS library.
  - Example: using this filter and the `file-types` attribute will allow you to track downloads of certain file types when File Downloads tracking is
    enabled.

### Actions

- `plausible_analytics_settings_saved`: Trigger additional tasks directly after settings are saved.
- `plausible_analytics_after_register_assets`: This action allows you to trigger additional tasks or add custom JS (e.g. events) to the tracking code.

### Toggles

Using constants, you can modify the behavior of the plugin. `wp-config.php` is the best place to define constants. If you're using a custom plugin,
make sure its code is loaded before this plugin.

- `PLAUSIBLE_SELF_HOSTED_DOMAIN`: Especially useful for Multisite instances using the self-hosted version of Plausible, this constant allows you to
  specify the Self-Hosted Domain for all subsites at once. **IMPORTANT**: this constant takes precedence over the plugin's setting. So, if this
  constant is defined, changing the setting won't have any effect.
- `plausible_proxy`: Appending this `GET`-parameter will force enable the proxy on the page you\'re calling it. This'll allow you to test your proxy
  in the frontend, before enabling the option.

## Local Development

To get started developing on the Plausible Analytics WordPress Plugin you will need to perform the following steps:

1. Create a new WordPress site with `plausible.test` as the URL
2. `cd` into your local plugins directory: `/path/to/wp-content/plugins/`
3. Clone this repository from GitHub into your plugins directory: `https://github.com/plausible/wordpress.git`
4. Run composer to set up dependencies: `composer install`
5. Run npm install to get the necessary npm packages: `npm install`
6. Activate the plugin in WordPress

That's it. You're now ready to start development.

### NPM Commands

Plausible Analytics relies on several npm commands to get you started:

* `npm run watch` - Live reloads JS and SASS files. Typically you'll run this command before you start development. It's necessary to build the JS/CSS
  however if you're working strictly within PHP it may not be necessary to run.
* `npm run dev` - Runs a one time build for development. No production files are created.
* `npm run production` - Builds the minified production files for release.

### Development Notes

* Ensure that you have `SCRIPT_DEBUG` enabled within your wp-config.php file. Here's a good example of wp-config.php for debugging:
    ```
     // Enable WP_DEBUG mode
    define( 'WP_DEBUG', true );
    
    // Enable Debug logging to the /wp-content/debug.log file
    define( 'WP_DEBUG_LOG', true );
   
    // Loads unminified core files
    define( 'SCRIPT_DEBUG', true );
    ```
* Commit the `package.lock` file. Read more about why [here](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package-lock.json).
* Your editor should recognize the `.eslintrc` and `.editorconfig` files within the Repo's root directory. Please only submit PRs following those
  coding style rulesets.

### Regenerating the OpenAPI PHP Client

This plugin uses a OpenAPI PHP Client which is autogenerated by the OpenAPI generator to reduce contract violations, etc. to a minimum. But, since
this is a WordPress plugin, some manual modifications need to be done to make sure it doesn't conflict with other plugins:

- (Re)generate the PHP client using the following command (trigger it from the Plugin's root dir as output will be saved to `src/Client`):
  `openapi-generator-cli generate -i https://plausible.io/api/plugins/spec/openapi -g php -o src/Client --additional-properties=identifierNamingConvention=snake_case,invokerPackage="Plausible\Analytics\WP\Client" --global-property=apis,models,supportingFiles,modelDocs=false,modelTests=false,apiDocs=false,apiTests=false`
- (When regenerating the PHP client this step can be skipped) Navigate to the `src/Client` director and install Composer
  dependencies: `composer install --no-dev`
- (When regenerating the PHP client this step can be skipped) Run `mozart compose` from the `src/Client` directory (Make sure Mozart is installed
  globally)
- In the `Client/lib` directory, replace all occurences of ` GuzzleHttp` (mind the space) with ` Plausible\Analytics\WP\Client\Lib\GuzzleHttp` (again,
  mind the space at the beginning)
- In the same directory, replace all occurences of ` \GuzzleHttp` (mind the space and backslash)
  with ` \Plausible\Analytics\WP\Client\Lib\GuzzleHttp`.

Commit message:

Added: plausible_analytics_pageview_properties filter and modified settings page text.

README.md, after:

[![Gitpod ready-to-code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gitpod-ready--to--code-blue?logo=gitpod)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/plausible/wordpress)

# [Plausible Analytics](https://plausible.io "Plausible Analytics") #

![WordPress version](https://img.shields.io/wordpress/plugin/v/plausible-analytics.svg) ![WordPress Rating](https://img.shields.io/wordpress/plugin/r/plausible-analytics.svg) ![WordPress Downloads](https://img.shields.io/wordpress/plugin/dt/plausible-analytics.svg)

Welcome to the Plausible Analytics WordPress Plugin GitHub repository. This is the code source and the center of active development. Here you can
browse the source, look at open issues, and contribute to the project.

## Getting Started

If you're looking to contribute or actively develop on Plausible Analytics then skip ahead to
the [Local Development](https://github.com/plausible/wordpress/#local-development) section below. The following is if you're looking to actively use
the plugin on your WordPress site.

### Minimum Requirements

* WordPress 4.8 or greater
* PHP version 5.6 or greater
* MySQL version 5.5 or greater

### Automatic installation

Automatic installation is the easiest option as WordPress handles the file transfers itself and you don't need to leave your web browser. To do an
automatic install of Plausible Analytics, log in to your WordPress dashboard, navigate to the Plugins menu and click "Add New".

In the search field type "Plausible Analytics" and click Search Plugins. Once you have found the plugin you can view details about it such as the
point release, rating and description. Most importantly of course, you can install it by simply clicking "Install Now".

### Manual installation

The manual installation method involves downloading our donation plugin and uploading it to your server via your favorite FTP application. The
WordPress codex contains [instructions on how to do this here](https://codex.wordpress.org/Managing_Plugins#Manual_Plugin_Installation).

### Support

This repository is not suitable for support. Please don't use GitHub issues for support requests. To get support please use the following channels:

* [WP.org Support Forums](https://wordpress.org/support/plugin/plausible-analytics) - for all users

## Available Actions, Filters and Toggles

### Filters

- `plausible_load_js_in_footer`: Allows you to load the JS code snippet in the footer.
- `plausible_analytics_script_params`: Allows you to modify the `script` element, loading the Plausible JS library.
  - Example: using this filter and the `file-types` attribute will allow you to track downloads of certain file types when File Downloads tracking is
    enabled.
- `plausible_analytics_pageview_properties`: Allows you to add custom pageview properties when the Pageview Properties option is enabled under
  Enhanced Measurements. For examples, read the [documentation on Pageview Properties](https://plausible.io/docs/custom-props/for-pageviews).

### Actions

- `plausible_analytics_settings_saved`: Trigger additional tasks directly after settings are saved.
- `plausible_analytics_after_register_assets`: This action allows you to trigger additional tasks or add custom JS (e.g. events) to the tracking code.

### Toggles

Using constants, you can modify the behavior of the plugin. `wp-config.php` is the best place to define constants. If you're using a custom plugin,
make sure its code is loaded before this plugin.

- `PLAUSIBLE_SELF_HOSTED_DOMAIN`: Especially useful for Multisite instances using the self-hosted version of Plausible, this constant allows you to
  specify the Self-Hosted Domain for all subsites at once. **IMPORTANT**: this constant takes precedence over the plugin's setting. So, if this
  constant is defined, changing the setting won't have any effect.
- `plausible_proxy`: Appending this `GET`-parameter will force enable the proxy on the page you\'re calling it. This'll allow you to test your proxy
  in the frontend, before enabling the option.

## Local Development

To get started developing on the Plausible Analytics WordPress Plugin you will need to perform the following steps:

1. Create a new WordPress site with `plausible.test` as the URL
2. `cd` into your local plugins directory: `/path/to/wp-content/plugins/`
3. Clone this repository from GitHub into your plugins directory: `https://github.com/plausible/wordpress.git`
4. Run composer to set up dependencies: `composer install`
5. Run npm install to get the necessary npm packages: `npm install`
6. Activate the plugin in WordPress

That's it. You're now ready to start development.

### NPM Commands

Plausible Analytics relies on several npm commands to get you started:

* `npm run watch` - Live reloads JS and SASS files. Typically you'll run this command before you start development. It's necessary to build the JS/CSS
  however if you're working strictly within PHP it may not be necessary to run.
* `npm run dev` - Runs a one time build for development. No production files are created.
* `npm run production` - Builds the minified production files for release.

### Development Notes

* Ensure that you have `SCRIPT_DEBUG` enabled within your wp-config.php file. Here's a good example of wp-config.php for debugging:
    ```
     // Enable WP_DEBUG mode
    define( 'WP_DEBUG', true );
    
    // Enable Debug logging to the /wp-content/debug.log file
    define( 'WP_DEBUG_LOG', true );
   
    // Loads unminified core files
    define( 'SCRIPT_DEBUG', true );
    ```
* Commit the `package.lock` file. Read more about why [here](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package-lock.json).
* Your editor should recognize the `.eslintrc` and `.editorconfig` files within the Repo's root directory. Please only submit PRs following those
  coding style rulesets.

### Regenerating the OpenAPI PHP Client

This plugin uses a OpenAPI PHP Client which is autogenerated by the OpenAPI generator to reduce contract violations, etc. to a minimum. But, since
this is a WordPress plugin, some manual modifications need to be done to make sure it doesn't conflict with other plugins:

- (Re)generate the PHP client using the following command (trigger it from the Plugin's root dir as output will be saved to `src/Client`):
  `openapi-generator-cli generate -i https://plausible.io/api/plugins/spec/openapi -g php -o src/Client --additional-properties=identifierNamingConvention=snake_case,invokerPackage="Plausible\Analytics\WP\Client" --global-property=apis,models,supportingFiles,modelDocs=false,modelTests=false,apiDocs=false,apiTests=false`
- (When regenerating the PHP client this step can be skipped) Navigate to the `src/Client` director and install Composer
  dependencies: `composer install --no-dev`
- (When regenerating the PHP client this step can be skipped) Run `mozart compose` from the `src/Client` directory (Make sure Mozart is installed
  globally)
- In the `Client/lib` directory, replace all occurences of ` GuzzleHttp` (mind the space) with ` Plausible\Analytics\WP\Client\Lib\GuzzleHttp` (again,
  mind the space at the beginning)
- In the same directory, replace all occurences of ` \GuzzleHttp` (mind the space and backslash)
  with ` \Plausible\Analytics\WP\Client\Lib\GuzzleHttp`.
